860 s.aoousr1rt,a1snoe‚ [auo. 28.

But the eloquence and boldness of S. Augustin per-
suaded them to yield obedience.

Alypius, his early friend, had returned to Africa,
andhad been elected bishop of Tagaste. About this
time he undertook a journey to the Holy Laud,
where he saw S. Jerom in his retreat at Bethlehem.
He related to him the history of S. Angustia, and
thus laid the foundation of the friendship which
afterwards united those great doctore of the Church.

ln 394, S. Augustin began to write against the
Donatista. Their schismatical party was then pos-
sested of great power in Africa, which they em-
ployed in persecuting the Catholics. Some of the
most learned of his works were written agaimt them,
and his discourses to the people were osten directed
against their errors. His fame having now spread
over the whole of Africa, Valerius feared that he
might be taken from Hippo to fill an episcopal see.
He therefore wrote to the bishop of Carthago, err-
treating him to consecrate S. Augustin as his coad-
jutor in the diocese of Hippo. From this it appears
that the canon of the Nicene couneil, which forbade
the consecration ofa bishop to a see already full,
had not been promulgated in the African Church.
Aurelius gave hia consent, and S. Augustin was con-
secrated at Christmas, 395. In the following year he
became sole bishop by the death of Valerius.

Aster his appointment to this high office, his manner
of life was simple and unostentatious. He affected
neither luxury nor extreme poverty. And that the
hospitality which became his office might not inter·
rupt the religione seclusion of his monks, he lest
their house, and went to live at the house of the

 

