¹ saer. 30.] consessore, tun noeros. 475

proposing questions to him regarding the nature of
the Blessed Trinity, which admitted os a double an-
swer. He was so wearied and perplexed by their
importunity, that in 377 he wrote for advice to the
Bishop of Rome. ln his first letter to Damasus, he
used these remarkable words: “Since the East is

χ agiteted by the ancient madness of the people among
t themselves, and is rending in pieces the undivided

garment of Christ, which is woven wholly through-
out; since forres are rooting up the vine os Christ,
so that among these broken cister-ns one can hardly
discover where is the fountain enclosed, the garden
sealed3 therefore Ι have resolved to consult the
chair of Peter, and the saith praised by apostolic
lips. 1 neck thence for food sor my soul, whence I
once received the garments of Christ. For neither
could so vast a tract of water, nor the many lands
which intervene, prevent me from secking for this
precious pearl. Where the body is, there will the
eagles be gathered together. Although thy greatness
would terrify me, yet thy humanity invites me. I
avictim bcg for safety from the Priest, a sheep from
the Shepherd asks shelter. Let envy depart, and
ambitious desire of the Roman preeminence, when I
speak with the successor of the Fisherman‚ with the
disciple of the Cross. I, following none as first but
Christ, am associated in the communion of your
beatitude, that is, of the chair of Peter. Upon this
rock 1 know that the Church is built; whoever shall
eat the lamb ou't of this house is profane. If any
one is not in the ark of Noah, he shall perish in the
prevailing deluge¹.'’ The second letter which he

massmannum.

 

