secudu] consessorum nocron. 479

women whose spiritual direction he had undertaken.
The Romans at thet time murmured loudly against
dre Eastem monks, for leading away ladies of rank,
and persuading them to give up all that they had in
this world to purchase the etemal joys of a better
life.

S. J erom therefore resolved to leave Rome, und to
return to Palestine. ln the month of August, 385,
he embarlred, with his younger brother Paulinian, a
priest named Vincent, and a few monks. On the
eve of sailing, he wrote a letter to Asella, com-
mending himself to the prayers of the devout ladies
her friends. He lauded in Cyprus, and was joyfully
welcomed by S. Epiphanius. Thence he went to
Antioch3 and arrived at Jerusalem in the middle of
winter. In the following spring he made a joumey
into Egypt. At Alexandria he studied for a month
under Didymus, who was blind, but whose profound
learning had made him famous in the Churoh. S.
Jerom‚ though himself grey-headed, and though his
own name was then celebrated in the East and West,
thought noshame to sit at his feet, and consult him
on holy Scripture. He then visited the monas·
teries of Egypt, and returned to the Holy Laud, and
probably to his old retreat at Bethlehem, where he
continued the study of the Hebrew language‚ not yet
deeming himself perfect in ‘it A great J ewish
doctor was engaged to instruct him, and visited him
by night, lest it should become known to the other
Jews. He lived in the practice of unwearied mor·
tification‚ supplying his bodily wants with the meanest
fare. Part of his time was devoted to the instruction

of children.
1 1

 

