574Ι s.uuon,n1su'or. [uov. 17. 3

meuse, to request that S. Hugh might be appointed
to govem it. Notwithstanding his entreaties, he was
commanded to accept the office3 and shortly aster
arrived in England. He soon established discipline
among the brethren‚ and won the good opinion 01

. those who lived near the monastery, by his simplicity ¹

and meelmess. He assisted with his own hands in
carrying stanes and mortar to linish the buildings.
Under his care the little community increased rapidly. ἵ
The king used sometimes to turn aside from hunting,
to converse with the holy prior.

The see 01 Lincoln had been for many years vacant,
and king Henry, in 1186, resolved that a bishop
should he appointed. It had been translated hy
Remigius, about the year 1086, from Dorchester in
Oxfordshire‚ where S. Birinus had founded a cathe-
dral church in 635, with the assistance of the kings

01 Northumhria and Wessex. At the death 01 S. ’

Bitiam, it included the kingdoms 01 the Merciaus
aud West Saxona in its jurisdictiou3 but in later
times it had been subdivided into the sees 01 Win-
chester, Salisbury, Exeter‚ Bath and wells, Lich-
lield, Worcester‚ aud Hereford. Henry summoned
the dean and chapter to rivesham, and directed
them to choose a bishop. Alter long deliberation,
they elected the prior of witham, to the great joy

01 the king. The archbishop 01 Cauterbury con· ¹

firmed their choice, and deputies were sent to the
monastery to inform S. Hugh of the event. But he
would on no account accept the dignity‚ protesting

his own unworthiness, and that the election had not ⁴

been made hythe free choice 01 the chapter3 and,
above all, tlsat he had no leave lrom his superior, '‘

 

